Hey everyone and thanks for jumping back
into the cryptoverse.
Today, we're going to talk about
Bitcoin. Dubious speculation. If you
guys like the content, make sure you
subscribe to the channel, give the video
thumbs up, and also check out the sale
on Into the Cryptoverse Premium at
intothecryptoverse.com.
Bitcoin is still pushing up against its
200-day moving average. And one of the
things that we've previously pointed out
are obviously similarities to prior bear
markets, but there have been two bear
markets where Bitcoin did get above the
200-day moving average for a brief
period of time. I think it was about a
month um in in both cases. So, we'll
take a look at those. But, the first
thing I want to do is talk about sort of
the structure of of the bear market and
how
when you have these lows in February of
mid-term years, February 2026,
right? January, February of 2022,
February of 2018, and then February of
2014, you will have these long-lasting
countertrend rallies that can last for
several months. The one in 2014
lasted all the way into June.
In 2018, you can see that we did not put
in a lower low until almost July after a
countertrend rally that kind of stalled
out in May. And then last time was sort
of the shortest countertrend rally as it
topped out in March. So, when you look
at just the 200-day moving average, you
can see often times that Bitcoin will
stall out around the 200-day moving
average in mid-term years. You can see
that it happened in 2018, 2022, and
that's where we currently are in 2026.
But, I I don't want to have tunnel
vision and assume that it can't fall
when we have seen it fall before. I
remember in 2014 it fell
and we went above the 200-day moving
average.
As you can see.
And once we got really above it in June,
we stayed above it for about a month or
so before coming back down. And then we
also got above it in 2019 a couple of
times and we've made plenty of
comparisons
to the current bear market to the one
that actually played out in 2019. This
slow
begrudging move higher before you ended
up getting a a recession. And one of the
reasons we compared to 2019 is because
when Bitcoin topped in June of 2019, it
topped about 2 months before
quantitative tightening ended. Bitcoin
topped in June, QT ended in August.
In this cycle, Bitcoin topped 2 months
before QT ended. Bitcoin topped in
October, QT ended in December. And what
happened in 2019 after the top is
Bitcoin had about a a 52 to 53% drop,
very similar to what we just had, right?
About a 52
to 53% drop as measured from the high
before you started to get that
countertrend rally. And And last cycle
from 2022, you can see also about a 52%
drop before that countertrend rally back
up to the 200-day moving average. So,
look, there's certainly a chance that
Bitcoin stalls out at the 200-day moving
average, but we have seen it go above it
in the past and I'm not going to just
sit here and pretend like it can't
happen. So,
in this video, we'll talk about what
happens if it does get past it. Like,
what does that actually look like? And
what would the timing of that be? Well,
if you look, and this is really dubious,
if you look on the daily time frame,
there's been a pattern that seems to be
repeating every couple of weeks or so
where in week one of the pattern, you go
up in the beginning part of the week,
you form a top, go down Thursday,
Friday, and then sort of wick back up,
and then you go down Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, right? So, it's up Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday, kind of stall out
through the weekend, and then down
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and then you
go up,
take it out, and then you're kind of
right back to where you started. And
then the pattern repeats itself, right?
You go up Monday through Wednesday,
stall out through the weekend, come back
up, sweep the high, back down, and then
back up. So, this pattern, right? So, if
you think about like this being your Let
me do numbers instead. One,
two,
three,
and four.
So, you see the pattern of one, two,
three, and four, and then of course this
being again,
um
you you get your move up, and you go up
to five. And then the pattern repeats,
right? One,
two,
three,
four, and now we're sort of approaching
that that five mark. And once you get to
that five mark, then the Bitcoin has to
decide if it's going to break out or if
it then just stalls out. Okay? So,
in this case, in this case, Bitcoin is
really close to breaking through the
200-day moving average. You can see it
actually looks like it just It actually
hasn't even technically tagged the
200-day moving average yet. But we know
it went past it in 2019, we know it went
past it in 2014. And when you look at
Bitcoin on the monthly, and you look at
like monthly
Heikin-Ashi candles, the things that one
of the things that 2019 and 2014 had in
common were the monthly Heikin-Ash
candles briefly turned green.
You can see in 2014
and in 2019.
In 2018
and 2022, they did not turn green in the
middle of the bear market, right? They
they just stayed red throughout the
entire bear market. So, if this were to
close green, it does start to draw more
resemblances to what we saw back in 2019
and in 2014.
There's something else I was looking at.
I would say that So, the 200-day moving
average is certainly a resistance level.
If we get through it, what would be kind
of the next stopping point? Well, if you
look at all the prior bear markets,
let's suppose you didn't know where the
low was, okay? In prior bear markets,
cuz you didn't, right? I mean, and let's
just go through each one.
So, we're going to start with 2014.
Imagine you thought
the low was February.
Okay?
When you look at this fib retracement
tool, where did the rally stall out at?
Where Where did the rally stall out at?
It stalled out as it retraced back to
this point 382. Maybe a little bit below
it, but it almost reached it.
If you take the April low, right? If you
go to the April low, where did that
rally stall out in terms of this fib
retracement? It stalled out again at the
point 382. You see that? And sometimes
we wicked above it. It's not like it was
a perfect match, but we we did sometimes
go above it. So, you can see how when
you're in these bear markets, when you
use that low as sort of the low to
measure the fib retracement tool from,
you'll find that the Bitcoin rallied up
to the point 382.
If you look at 2018, and you
and you thought that February was low,
you took this fib retracement tool,
and you looked to see where Bitcoin
rallied after hitting this level,
you can see it also went up to the point
382, wicked above it slightly, but
that's ultimately where it Bitcoin
stalled out.
We're going to skip 2019, and then we're
going to come back to it. Uh in 2022,
when Bitcoin had this big drop into
January, late January, early February,
this technically was late January, you
can see that Bitcoin rallied up and then
stalled out around the point 382. So, a
lot of the rallies stall out at the
point 382. The interesting thing though
is that in a lot of these prior rallies
that corresponded to the 200-day moving
average, right? It corresponded to the
200-day moving average in March 2022. It
corresponded to the 200-day moving
average.
Um well, I guess it didn't in in 2018
cuz we had barely even gone below the
200-day moving average. The 200-day
moving average provided resistance later
on in May, which is where we are right
now, but the countertrend rally happened
a lot quicker, right? It it topped by
March, and then we came back down. This
time, we haven't done that, right? We're
we're still over here in like the sort
of the the May time frame.
Still resistance at the 200-day moving
average, but that 0.382 had already
triggered. And then in 2014, you can see
that we hit that 0.382 in June of 2014.
So, then it sort of raises the question
And And by the way, back then, we we hit
the 0.382 in June, and we were
just above the 200-day moving average,
right? So, we just went above it for a
brief period of time
in June.
And And then we And then we stalled out.
So, let's look at it today. Like, where
is Bitcoin with respect to this today?
So, let's take a look. So, as measured
from the high, you take the Fibonacci
retracement tool,
and you go here, you bring it down, you
can see that Bitcoin is struggling to
get through the 200-day moving average.
If it does get through, like 2014,
that 0.382 might come into play, which
is right around 85.
Right? It's right around 85K.
So, again, in 2014,
it did get through, and then it found
resistance at that 0.382 level,
approximately, right? Like, give or take
a a few percent. It's not an exact
science. I could be wrong, right? Maybe
we're not in a bear market, but it's not
my base case, and I One of the things I
have to do is try to remain
level-headed, because on one hand,
it looks like a bear market.
To me,
on the other hand, you know, you have
people screaming at you constantly day
in and day out that you're wrong, and
and you know, you're you're missing out
on this major bull market. But, I always
look back and I'm like, "Well, is it
doing anything different than it
previously did?"
Some of the times we stall out at the
200-day, sometimes it goes slightly
above it, and then we find resistance at
the 0.382.
Where it gets a little tricky is 2019.
And And one of the reasons for that 2019
comparison, as I've mentioned
previously, is if you If you just
overlay it, the QT ending bear market
try the 2019 rally to the current one,
like it it it does track relatively
well. And And in this case, if it were
to continue to track, you you you know,
that you could still see the rally
extend. But, what's interesting is when
we got the retracement back then,
we rallied
close to 0.382, to the 200-day. We got
close We We hit the 200-day, came back
down to the 0.236. And if you guys
remember, this is what we talked about,
how we went back down to the bull market
support band, right? So, I told you guys
a few weeks ago, I was like, "Look, if
we're going to go above the 200-day
moving average, we'll probably back test
the 21-week EMA first." And you you can
see that we have, right? We We went up
to the 200-day moving average, we came
back down to the 21-week EMA, and now
we're back up. And this pattern was a
pattern we had seen play out not only in
2019,
right? If you look at 2019, what you'll
see is we went up to the 200-day moving
average, got rejected, came back down to
the 21-week EMA,
and then went through. We gave We went
to the 0.382,
but then we went all the way back up to
the 0.5. So, we actually even extended
it beyond the 0.382.
So, if we're here,
if we're here,
right? Then,
that
took another
2 weeks or so, right? It would get you
to the beginning of June, essentially.
Um which is essentially where Bitcoin
stalled out at in 2014, right? It
rallied into the the very beginning of
June. And and June has an importance in
terms of it it is often a a turnaround
point for the markets regardless what
way the market is going. So, sometimes
if the market goes up into June, it
marks a high like in 2014
and in 2019.
But if the market is going down into
June, it tends to mark a low like in
and in 2022. So, it it's kind of like
Bitcoin dominance in the sense that you
guys know how every September Bitcoin
dominance typically will adjust course.
So, if Bitcoin dominance is going up
into September, it then usually starts
to go down on the other side of it. If
it's going down into September, Bitcoin
dominance then usually goes up on the
other side of it.
So, this is one of those things where
because Bitcoin is still rallying and
it's already mid-May, it becomes
increasingly difficult for a low to form
in June if Bitcoin doesn't start going
down soon. And so, if it doesn't start
going down soon, then I think you you
sort of defer to the idea of it going up
into that month,
that marking the high, and then you roll
over because then I know this it maybe
it sounds like cope if you've been
bullish, and I I can I can understand
that. I empathize with that. But
when when you had this move in 2014, you
know, Bitcoin had that rally into June,
and then the next major low occurred in
October, which is when I would think a a
potential market cycle low for Bitcoin
could be.
Um
and yes, technically it went lower in
April, but you have to remember that
despite it going lower in April, it only
was lower for like a couple of days.
More or less, after the February low,
Bitcoin generally trended up into June
and then down into October.
So, I I don't want to lose sight of
that, um but I also don't want to sit
here and say that like
I know I'm right because I don't. I
mean, this is my expectation is that
in bear markets, you have a couple of
very convincing counter trend rallies.
Uh, we had
we had two in 2022, right? We had the
one over here early in the year, and
then we had one later in the year.
And in 2018, we had one really early in
the year. We had this one right here,
and they were all relatively convincing,
but they didn't really yield anything.
Even in 2019, you could argue we had a
couple of very convincing counter trend
rallies that eventually led to lower
prices. So,
it's hard to get on the bull bandwagon,
um,
as as easy as it might seem. You know,
you're just like if you're like looking
at the chart, you're like, "Well, it's
going up into the right. Why can't it
continue to do that?" The other thing,
too, is if you if you just kind of
connect the dots on this channel here,
you can see that by about early June, it
would correspond to around 85k. I'm not
saying it would take that long to get
there, but um, just something to
consider. So, I think for me, like,
unfortunately,
I stay in the bear camp.
And
I've said for a long time, you could
easily see Bitcoin back at 80k. Could go
even higher. I mean, in 2019,
it basically rallied all the way back up
to the prior high before it stalled out,
right? I mean, imagine how crazy that
would get if we went all the way back up
into the '90s.
I don't know where it's going to stall
out. I want to be clear, I'm not I don't
have a crystal ball. What I'm saying,
and I think most people can understand
like can appreciate the view, is that
it it would seem to me like the most
likely outcome is that it will likely go
down into Q4. Just like Bitcoin went up
into Q4 of 2025, it'll likely go down
into Q4 of 2026. It is very difficult to
time the exact shift in momentum. In 20
18, it occurred in May. In 2014, it
occurred in in in June.
And you know, I don't know exactly when
it's going to occur this time, but I
would guess that it'll play out in a
similar fashion. Now, some people say,
"Well, what would be the catalyst for
it? Like what why does it have to go
down?" Well, it doesn't have to, but one
of the things that caused it to go down
in 2018, you had an initial correction
by Bitcoin, but then you had a
correction later in the year, too.
Even after Bitcoin rallied up. By the
way, for those that are a fan of the 10x
analysis,
and if you're not familiar with what I
mean by the 10x
uh analysis is basically just that like
what's happening now is just essentially
10x from what it did back in 2018 and
also in 2019, how Bitcoin found support
at 6K,
and in 2019 also 6K, and then this time
it was 60K.
And back in 2018,
after finding support at 6K,
Bitcoin actually rallied all the way
back up to almost 10K. And then in 2019,
it did rally up to 10K. So,
I'm not here to tell you that Bitcoin,
you know, it it it can't ever go up when
you have these these rallies, obviously
it can. It's just that I've live I mean,
I lived through both 2018 and 2019.
And I got drawn into those rallies as
well, and then I ultimately saw them
fade. So, so what would be the
narrative, you know, regardless of
whether the price tops out? What what
whether it's the 200-day moving average,
whether it's 85K, whether it's even in
the 90s, right? What would be the
narrative for it to actually go back
down? Well,
my guess is that the narrative would be
related to the stock market, and and
kind of how the stock market played out
in 2018. So, in 2018, in mid-term year,
uh Trump was president, we had a
correction early in the year,
and then we had a correction later in
the year. And it was the correction
later in the year, which led to Bitcoin
continuing its bear market.
So, you had two corrections, one early
in the year,
one late in the year.
Now,
what I think's happening with the S&P is
it's it's lagging Bitcoin in the sense
of like Bitcoin is showing you
it's going to do maybe one or two years
early. Look at what the S&P did. First
of all, actually look what Bitcoin did
last year.
Bitcoin had a correction first early in
the year,
and then late in the year. You see that?
First one early, second one late. When
Bitcoin found support
in late March, early April of 2025, it
was slightly above the prior low, or
sorry, the prior high. Slightly above
it. Now, look at the S&P 500. Where did
it just find support?
In late March, early April.
Slightly above the prior
high. Kind of the same thing. Now, back
then, after Bitcoin rallied,
right after Bitcoin rallied off of that
low,
off the low here, it rallied from early
April
into May, into late May, brief
correction, and then a little bit
higher, and then it topped in October
and came down
in the Q4.
Um
And so, you had you had sort of those
two corrections. You had one early in
the year,
and one late in the year. And and the
same thing occurred with the S&P 500 in
in 2018. You had a correction early in
the year,
had a correction late in the year.
Um and it was the second correction by
the stock market that then kind of took
Bitcoin down, arguably.
So, and by the way, I mean, I I don't
know exactly where the S&P is going to
find a high for the year. Uh it still is
is generally tracking some of the
correlations we've we've talked about
previously,
um and how if it were to follow Bitcoin
last year, then it would find a low
after the 10% drop. Remember we said to
expect this 10% drop. We could have a
rally after that all-time highs. It
didn't have to be an all-time high, but
it was.
And then
in order for it to be a top, it has to
take place over a long period of time.
It can't It's not an event that takes
place in a single day. It's an event
that takes place over a long period of
time. Exactly how Bitcoin did, right?
And if you think about how Bitcoin
played out last year,
you had the highs, you had a big drop,
you rallied up to slightly higher highs.
I think
from that high,
Bitcoin rallied it about another
16% after that first high. So I don't I
don't know exactly where the S&P is
uh from its prior high.
Yeah, it's only about 7% above. So I
mean, you can see that the Bitcoin
potentially has already given the
blueprint. It's just a year ahead in
terms of some of the price action, and
you could argue the reason why Bitcoin
has been bleeding to the stock market is
because it's more sensitive to monetary
policy and and potential tighter
monetary policy than the stock market,
and that's why it's bleeding to stocks
for the last 6 months. It's because as
we've essentially priced out all the
rate cuts in 2026,
and now started to price in potentially
some rate hikes in 2027, you're seeing
the riskier assets, you're seeing the
crypto market struggle a lot more. Yeah,
I mean, I know it's been going up
recently, but for the most part for the
last 6 months, it has struggled, whereas
the S&P hasn't struggled nearly as much.
And if you look at the valuation of
Bitcoin
against the stock market,
what you'll notice is that it's it's
basically testing its own bull market
support band. And this is something that
that Bitcoin has done several times in
prior bear markets.
Right?
Now in 2019, it did get past it.
And then and then the recession hit,
right? So,
those are my views on the market. I
mean, I honestly like I mean I'm I'm
pretty tired these days cuz again I as I
said we have we have the newborn and I
know people are are are calling me out
and whatnot and and that's fine. Uh this
is their time in the sun and I and it
certainly makes sense to let them have
it. But, from a from sort of a a larger
market perspective,
it's hard to get on the bull train when
you can see
countless example after example of
example, 2014, 2018, 2022,
also even 2019, where every single rally
failed
and eventually we went lower. And in
2019, we even went above 10K, right? I
mean, imagine how crazy it would get if
we went above 100K.
So,
for me,
the midterm year
for Bitcoin is the year to
invest elsewhere except for maybe by the
end of the year if Bitcoin is trading it
at sort of a a more what it looks to be
like a more durable bottom that every
indicator is kind of triggered that hey,
this could be the bottom.
It makes sense to be invested elsewhere,
to me. That doesn't mean I don't own
Bitcoin, I still do own some, not nearly
as much as I did in the bull market. And
what I mean by this is if if you look at
the valuation of of say Bitcoin
against say the S&P 500, right? Like I
own index funds. I haven't sold any of
my index funds even though I do think
we're in a late business cycle
environment. I'd like to see more
evidence of of a more durable top.
Bitcoin is down 14 to 15% against the
stock market this year.
It is down 13 to 14% against gold.
It is down about 27 to 28% against
energy.
And the list goes on and on and on. Even
silver, even though silver had a big
correction,
Bitcoin is down 20 to 21% against
silver.
So, going into this year,
if you went in with the mindset of hey,
I'm going to fade Bitcoin and I'm going
to focus on the assets that normally do
well in midterm years,
you're actually doing better. Right? And
I
I mean, I know people are just going to
scream at that, but you are. Right? You
are.
It's it's easy to get drawn in to
countertrend rallies because they can
last for so long,
but then you still look at it and you're
like, well, you know, technically it was
still better to be in the stock market
and the energy market and even in
manufacturing and in gold and in silver,
it was better to be in all those things
than to be in Bitcoin this year.
In the middle of a countertrend rally,
when you're even near the end of it, it
can feel like that is called into
question.
But historically, something happens in
the back half of the year
that that then historically has led to
Bitcoin going lower. So,
those are my thoughts.
Again, this is not something that we can
rush. If Bitcoin goes past the 200-day
moving average, then I think you look
towards 85k. If it gets rejected at the
200-day moving average, then it just
makes it a lot simpler, but this market
has is is everything but but simple.
We're going to go ahead and wrap it up
there. If you guys like the content,
make sure you subscribe to the channel,
give the video a thumbs up, and check
out the sale on Into The Cryptoverse
Premium at intothecryptoverse.com.
I'll see you guys next time. Bye.